# USER STORIES
 - As a ____, I should be able to ____ so I can ____



 ## Minimum Viable Product
 - All Users
    - As a user, I should be able to create my own account (including custom username), so I can log in and see personalized information
    - As a user, I should be able to request to change my password, so I don't have to worry about forgetting it
   
 - Volunteers
    - As a volunteer, I should be able to release my route on a day, so someone else can substitute.
    - As a volunteer, I should be able to pick up a released route on a particular day, so no routes go without a volunteer
    - As a volunteer, I should be able to pick up a new route that has not been previously assigned, so I can plan my hours in advance
   
 - Staff
    - As a staff, I should be able to create clients, so I can accomadate a growing client base
    - As a staff, I should be able to generate reports, so I can prepare daily operations.
    - As a staff, I should be able to manually create delivery routes, so I can customize the volunteer's tasks.
    - As a staff, I should be able to manually delete delivery routes, so I can avoid cluttering the portal with unused routes.
    - As a staff, I should be able to assign volunteers to recurring routes, so I can plan delivery.
    - As a staff, I should be able to assign one-time volunteers to routes, so I can create a substitution.
    - As a staff, I should be able to release volunteers from their recurring routes, so I can assign another volunteer to the recurring route.
    - As a staff, I should be able to one-time release volunteers from their routes, so I can allow other volunteers to substitute.
    - As a staff, I should be able to print reports that have been generated by any staff, so can have physical report copies.
`
 ## Ideal Product
 - All Users
    - As a user, I should be able to access the site from mobile platforms, so I can access the portal from my cell phone.
    - As a user, I should be able to navigate to each feature within 5 clicks, so that it is not too complicated to use.    
    - As a user, I should be able to get familiar with the portal quickly, so I don't have to spend a lot of time learning how to navigate it.
    - As a user, I should be able to use the portal without it being slow so I can get things done efficiently.
 
 - Staff
    - As a staff, I should be able to sort volunteer schedules by the day of the week, so I can see who is scheduled for which routes each day.
    - As a staff, I should be able to automatically email new volunteers through the portal, so I can welcome new volunteers to the portal.
    - As a staff, I should be able to email volunteers scheduled for a given day, so I can have have better day-to-day communication with the volunteers.
    - As a staff, I should be able to store day-to-day statistics for meals for 3 months, so I can analyze substitutions and new volunteer counts.
    - As a staff, I should be able to compile yearly reports, so I can submit them to the Board.
    - As a staff, I should be able to access reports for at least a year, so I can refer back to past data if needed.
    - As an admin-staff, I should be able to reset passwords for staff and volunteer accounts, so I can manage everyone's accounts if needed (lock-out, security, ...)
    - As a staff, I should be able to remove clients, so I can elimnate confusion in meal planning
    - As a staff, I should be able to upate client data so I can accomadate any changes in their diet/address/...

 ## Wishlist
 - All users
   - As a user, I should be able to export routes to maps.google.com/Google Maps mobile app, so I can easily navigate.
 
 - Staff
   - As a staff, I should be able to delete inactive volunteer accounts, so I can remove unnecessary users.
 
 
 
 








 

# Functional Requirements

 - Reports:
    - Must generate reports (probably should elaborate)
       - Daily Count Sheet
       - Overview All Jobs Sheet
       - Substitute Sheet
       - Overview Driver Sheet
       - Packer Substitute Sheet
       - Overview Packer Sheet
       - Shuttle Driver Substitute Sheet
       - Overview Shuttle Driver Sheet
       - Daily Billing Report
       - Monthly Billing Report
       - Client Birthday Report
       - Volunteer Birthday Report
       - Volunteer Join Date Report
       - Deceased Report
       - Export Customers
       - Export Volunteers
    - reports must be printable
       - proper margins
   create and 
 - Users:
    - standard login/logout capability
    - 3 types of accounts with different access
       - volunteers, staff, admin
    - quick account creation for volunteers (tied to email address)
       - Allow custom usernames (not Lastname_Firstname lol)
    - allow admin users to make changes to volunteer & staff information
    - have the forgot password link actually do something (changing user passwords)
    - fix account deletion (currently, deleted volunteers aren't really deleted)
    - activate/deactivate sporadic volunteer users

- Routes:
    - creation and deletion of routes
    - opening of routes in google maps
    - assigning volunteers to routes by staff
    - volunteers releasing a route-day for substitution
       - volunteers "picking up" released route-days for substitution
    
 - Data Viz:
    - ability to sort by day of week
       - typical volunteers
       - actual volunteers
    - retain/store meals data
       - 1 year for reports
       - 1-3 months for the day to day
       - statistics indefinitely
           - number of subs per day
           - number of new volunteers added
    - delivery routes
   
 - Other
    - Remove unsused features
       - Whiteboard
       - (some reports)
    - sending emails through the portal
       - Welcome email
       - Email to volunteers on a given day (ex. mass email to all Monday volunteers)
    - Mobile access



## Non-Functional
   - familiar look and feel
   - (X clicks per action)
   - Fast
   - organized by workflow


